docs/packaging.md, before:

## Packaging/relocating images

kbld provides a way to relocate (i.e. copy) images between multiple registries. Two approaches are available:

- `kbld relocate` (available v0.23.0+) allows to efficiently copy images between registries as long as running `relocate` command has connectivity to both registries.
- `kbld package` and `kbld unpackage` allows to export images into a single tarball, and later import them from given tarball into a different (or same) registry. This approach does _not_ require connectivity to source registry during the `pkg unpackage` time.

Use cases:

- packaging applications for fully offline environments with a private registry
- copying images from one registry to another
- backing up images

There are two approaches to do this:

- With lock file (recommended)
- Directly against configuration

### With lock file

For example, to package referenced images into a single tarball:

1. Produce lock file for referenced images in configuration

    ```bash
    $ cat /tmp/manifest
    images:
    - image: nginx
    - image: haproxy

    $ kbld -f /tmp/manifest --lock-output /tmp/manifest.lock
    ...

    $ cat /tmp/manifest.lock
    apiVersion: kbld.k14s.io/v1alpha1
    kind: Config
    minimumRequiredVersion: 0.21.0
    overrides:
    - image: haproxy
      newImage: index.docker.io/library/haproxy@sha256:e6f9faf0c2a0cf2d2d5a53307351fa896d90ca9ccd62817c24026460d97dde92
      preresolved: true
    - image: nginx
      newImage: index.docker.io/library/nginx@sha256:86ae264c3f4acb99b2dee4d0098c40cb8c46dcf9e1148f05d3a51c4df6758c12
      preresolved: true
    ```

1. Feed `/tmp/manifest.lock` to `kbld pkg` command to download images and pack them into a single tarball `/tmp/packaged-images.tar`:

    ```bash
    $ kbld pkg -f /tmp/manifest.lock --output /tmp/packaged-images.tar
    package | exporting 2 images...
    package | will export index.docker.io/library/nginx@sha256:e71b1bf4281f25533cf15e6e5f9be4dac74d2328152edf7ecde23abc54e16c1c
    package | will export index.docker.io/library/haproxy@sha256:6dae9c8674e2e5f418c3dd040041a05f6b490597315139c0bcacadf65a46cfd5
    package | exported 2 images

    $ ls -lah /tmp/packaged-images.tar
    -rw-r--r-- 1 root root 314M May  3 18:59 /tmp/packaged-images.tar
    ```

    Note: Depending on your internet connection this may be slow.

To import packaged images from a tarball:

1. Specify new repository location `docker.io/dkalinin/app1` and provide tarball:

    ```bash
    $ kbld unpkg -f /tmp/manifest.lock --input /tmp/packaged-images.tar --repository docker.io/dkalinin/app1 --lock-output /tmp/manifest.lock.copied
    unpackage | importing 2 images...
    unpackage | importing index.docker.io/library/nginx@sha256:e71b1bf4281f25533cf15e6e5f9be4dac74d2328152edf7ecde23abc54e16c1c -> docker.io/dkalinin/app1@sha256:e71b1bf4281f25533cf15e6e5f9be4dac74d2328152edf7ecde23abc54e16c1c...
    unpackage | importing index.docker.io/library/haproxy@sha256:6dae9c8674e2e5f418c3dd040041a05f6b490597315139c0bcacadf65a46cfd5 -> docker.io/dkalinin/app1@sha256:6dae9c8674e2e5f418c3dd040041a05f6b490597315139c0bcacadf65a46cfd5...
    unpackage | imported 2 images
    ```

    Images will be imported under a single new repository `docker.io/dkalinin/app1`. **You are guaranteed that images are exactly same as they are referenced by the same digests in produced YAML configuration (though under a different repository name)**.

1. **Alternatively**, using `relocate` command against a lock file:

    ```bash
    $ kbld relocate -f /tmp/manifest.lock --repository docker.io/dkalinin/app1 --lock-output /tmp/manifest.lock.copied
    relocate | ...
    ```

1. Use newely generated lock file with configuration to get updated results

    ```bash
    $ kbld -f /tmp/manifest -f /tmp/manifest.lock.copied
    images:
    - image: docker.io/dkalinin/app1@sha256:e71b1bf4281f25533cf15e6e5f9be4dac74d2328152edf7ecde23abc54e16c1c
    - image: docker.io/dkalinin/app1@sha256:6dae9c8674e2e5f418c3dd040041a05f6b490597315139c0bcacadf65a46cfd5
    ```

---
### Directly against configuration

For example, to package referenced images into a single tarball:

1. First make sure all image references are in their digest form

    ```bash
    $ cat /tmp/manifest
    images:
    - image: nginx
    - image: haproxy

    $ kbld -f /tmp/manifest > /tmp/resolved-manifest
    resolve | final: haproxy -> index.docker.io/library/haproxy@sha256:6dae9c8674e2e5f418c3dd040041a05f6b490597315139c0bcacadf65a46cfd5
    resolve | final: nginx -> index.docker.io/library/nginx@sha256:e71b1bf4281f25533cf15e6e5f9be4dac74d2328152edf7ecde23abc54e16c1c

    $ cat /tmp/resolved-manifest
    images:
    - image: index.docker.io/library/nginx@sha256:e71b1bf4281f25533cf15e6e5f9be4dac74d2328152edf7ecde23abc54e16c1c
    - image: index.docker.io/library/haproxy@sha256:6dae9c8674e2e5f418c3dd040041a05f6b490597315139c0bcacadf65a46cfd5
    ```

1. Feed `/tmp/resolved-manifest` to `kbld pkg` command to download images and pack them into a single tarball `/tmp/packaged-images.tar`:

    ```bash
    $ kbld pkg -f /tmp/resolved-manifest --output /tmp/packaged-images.tar
    package | exporting 2 images...
    package | will export index.docker.io/library/nginx@sha256:e71b1bf4281f25533cf15e6e5f9be4dac74d2328152edf7ecde23abc54e16c1c
    package | will export index.docker.io/library/haproxy@sha256:6dae9c8674e2e5f418c3dd040041a05f6b490597315139c0bcacadf65a46cfd5
    package | exported 2 images

    $ ls -lah /tmp/packaged-images.tar
    -rw-r--r-- 1 root root 314M May  3 18:59 /tmp/packaged-images.tar
    ```

    Note: Depending on your internet connection this may be slow.

To import packaged images from a tarball:

1. Specify new repository location `docker.io/dkalinin/app1` and provide tarball:

    ```bash
    $ kbld unpkg -f /tmp/resolved-manifest --input /tmp/packaged-images.tar --repository docker.io/dkalinin/app1
    unpackage | importing 2 images...
    unpackage | importing index.docker.io/library/nginx@sha256:e71b1bf4281f25533cf15e6e5f9be4dac74d2328152edf7ecde23abc54e16c1c -> docker.io/dkalinin/app1@sha256:e71b1bf4281f25533cf15e6e5f9be4dac74d2328152edf7ecde23abc54e16c1c...
    unpackage | importing index.docker.io/library/haproxy@sha256:6dae9c8674e2e5f418c3dd040041a05f6b490597315139c0bcacadf65a46cfd5 -> docker.io/dkalinin/app1@sha256:6dae9c8674e2e5f418c3dd040041a05f6b490597315139c0bcacadf65a46cfd5...
    unpackage | imported 2 images
    images:
    - image: docker.io/dkalinin/app1@sha256:e71b1bf4281f25533cf15e6e5f9be4dac74d2328152edf7ecde23abc54e16c1c
    - image: docker.io/dkalinin/app1@sha256:6dae9c8674e2e5f418c3dd040041a05f6b490597315139c0bcacadf65a46cfd5
    ```

    Images will be imported under a single new repository `docker.io/dkalinin/app1`. **You are guaranteed that images are exactly same as they are referenced by the same digests in produced YAML configuration (though under a different repository name)**.

1. **Alternatively**, using `relocate` command:

    ```bash
    $ kbld relocate -f /tmp/resolved-manifest --repository docker.io/dkalinin/app1
    relocate | ...
    images:
    - image: docker.io/dkalinin/app1@sha256:e71b1bf4281f25533cf15e6e5f9be4dac74d2328152edf7ecde23abc54e16c1c
    - image: docker.io/dkalinin/app1@sha256:6dae9c8674e2e5f418c3dd040041a05f6b490597315139c0bcacadf65a46cfd5
    ```

---
### Authentication

See general authentication steps in [Authentication doc](auth.md).

### Using with gcr.io

- Run `kbld unpkg -f /tmp/resolved-manifest --input /tmp/packaged-images.tar --repository gcr.io/{project-id}/app1` to import images (e.g. project id is `dkalinin`)

### Using with AWS ECR

**Note**: AWS ECR does not support manifest list media types from Docker Registry v2 API. Manifest lists are used for images that are built against multiple architectures and platforms and are referenced through a single digest or tag. Most user-built images do not use manifest lists (as it's a single image); however, common Docker Hub library images are represented by manifest lists and will fail upon import into AWS ECR. You will see following error: `Writing image index: Retried 5 times: uploading manifest2: UNSUPPORTED: Invalid parameter at 'imageTag' failed to satisfy constraint: 'must satisfy regular expression '[a-zA-Z0-9-_.]+'`. Related [AWS feature request](https://forums.aws.amazon.com/thread.jspa?threadID=292294)).

- Run `kbld unpkg -f /tmp/resolved-manifest --input /tmp/packaged-images.tar --repository {uri}` to import images (e.g. uri is `823869848626.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/k14s/kbld-test`)

### Using with Harbor

You may have to provide `--registry-ca-cert-path` flag with a path to a CA certificate file for Harbor Registry API.

### Notes

- Produced tarball does not have duplicate image layers, as they are named by their digest (see `tar tvf /tmp/packaged-images.tar`).
- If digest reference points to an image index, all children (images and other image indexes) will be included in the export. Saving only a portion of contents would of course change the digest.
- Only Docker v2 and OCI images and indexes are supported. Docker v1 format is not supported, hence, not all images out there could be exported and only registries supporting v2 format can be used for imports.
- Images that once were in different repositories are imported into the same repository to make it easier to manage them in bulk.

Commit message:

Update docs with `--imgpkg-lock-output` flag
Signed-off-by: Garrett Cheadle <gcheadle@vmware.com>

docs/packaging.md, after:


### Note: While kbld will continue to provide packaging support for the foreseeable future, most new Carvel users would likely favor [`imgpkg's`](https://github.com/k14s/imgpkg) feature set. To get started with imgpkg, check out the [docs](https://github.com/k14s/imgpkg/tree/develop/docs) as well as how to [produce an ImagesLock file using kbld resolve](resolving.md#generating-resolution-imgpkg-lock-output)

---


## Packaging/relocating images

kbld provides a way to relocate (i.e. copy) images between multiple registries. Two approaches are available:

- `kbld relocate` (available v0.23.0+) allows to efficiently copy images between registries as long as running `relocate` command has connectivity to both registries.
- `kbld package` and `kbld unpackage` allows to export images into a single tarball, and later import them from given tarball into a different (or same) registry. This approach does _not_ require connectivity to source registry during the `pkg unpackage` time.

Use cases:

- packaging applications for fully offline environments with a private registry
- copying images from one registry to another
- backing up images

There are two approaches to do this:

- With lock file (recommended)
- Directly against configuration

### With lock file

For example, to package referenced images into a single tarball:

1. Produce lock file for referenced images in configuration

    ```bash
    $ cat /tmp/manifest
    images:
    - image: nginx
    - image: haproxy

    $ kbld -f /tmp/manifest --lock-output /tmp/manifest.lock
    ...

    $ cat /tmp/manifest.lock
    apiVersion: kbld.k14s.io/v1alpha1
    kind: Config
    minimumRequiredVersion: 0.21.0
    overrides:
    - image: haproxy
      newImage: index.docker.io/library/haproxy@sha256:e6f9faf0c2a0cf2d2d5a53307351fa896d90ca9ccd62817c24026460d97dde92
      preresolved: true
    - image: nginx
      newImage: index.docker.io/library/nginx@sha256:86ae264c3f4acb99b2dee4d0098c40cb8c46dcf9e1148f05d3a51c4df6758c12
      preresolved: true
    ```

1. Feed `/tmp/manifest.lock` to `kbld pkg` command to download images and pack them into a single tarball `/tmp/packaged-images.tar`:

    ```bash
    $ kbld pkg -f /tmp/manifest.lock --output /tmp/packaged-images.tar
    package | exporting 2 images...
    package | will export index.docker.io/library/nginx@sha256:e71b1bf4281f25533cf15e6e5f9be4dac74d2328152edf7ecde23abc54e16c1c
    package | will export index.docker.io/library/haproxy@sha256:6dae9c8674e2e5f418c3dd040041a05f6b490597315139c0bcacadf65a46cfd5
    package | exported 2 images

    $ ls -lah /tmp/packaged-images.tar
    -rw-r--r-- 1 root root 314M May  3 18:59 /tmp/packaged-images.tar
    ```

    Note: Depending on your internet connection this may be slow.

To import packaged images from a tarball:

1. Specify new repository location `docker.io/dkalinin/app1` and provide tarball:

    ```bash
    $ kbld unpkg -f /tmp/manifest.lock --input /tmp/packaged-images.tar --repository docker.io/dkalinin/app1 --lock-output /tmp/manifest.lock.copied
    unpackage | importing 2 images...
    unpackage | importing index.docker.io/library/nginx@sha256:e71b1bf4281f25533cf15e6e5f9be4dac74d2328152edf7ecde23abc54e16c1c -> docker.io/dkalinin/app1@sha256:e71b1bf4281f25533cf15e6e5f9be4dac74d2328152edf7ecde23abc54e16c1c...
    unpackage | importing index.docker.io/library/haproxy@sha256:6dae9c8674e2e5f418c3dd040041a05f6b490597315139c0bcacadf65a46cfd5 -> docker.io/dkalinin/app1@sha256:6dae9c8674e2e5f418c3dd040041a05f6b490597315139c0bcacadf65a46cfd5...
    unpackage | imported 2 images
    ```

    Images will be imported under a single new repository `docker.io/dkalinin/app1`. **You are guaranteed that images are exactly same as they are referenced by the same digests in produced YAML configuration (though under a different repository name)**.

1. **Alternatively**, using `relocate` command against a lock file:

    ```bash
    $ kbld relocate -f /tmp/manifest.lock --repository docker.io/dkalinin/app1 --lock-output /tmp/manifest.lock.copied
    relocate | ...
    ```

1. Use newely generated lock file with configuration to get updated results

    ```bash
    $ kbld -f /tmp/manifest -f /tmp/manifest.lock.copied
    images:
    - image: docker.io/dkalinin/app1@sha256:e71b1bf4281f25533cf15e6e5f9be4dac74d2328152edf7ecde23abc54e16c1c
    - image: docker.io/dkalinin/app1@sha256:6dae9c8674e2e5f418c3dd040041a05f6b490597315139c0bcacadf65a46cfd5
    ```

---
### Directly against configuration

For example, to package referenced images into a single tarball:

1. First make sure all image references are in their digest form

    ```bash
    $ cat /tmp/manifest
    images:
    - image: nginx
    - image: haproxy

    $ kbld -f /tmp/manifest > /tmp/resolved-manifest
    resolve | final: haproxy -> index.docker.io/library/haproxy@sha256:6dae9c8674e2e5f418c3dd040041a05f6b490597315139c0bcacadf65a46cfd5
    resolve | final: nginx -> index.docker.io/library/nginx@sha256:e71b1bf4281f25533cf15e6e5f9be4dac74d2328152edf7ecde23abc54e16c1c

    $ cat /tmp/resolved-manifest
    images:
    - image: index.docker.io/library/nginx@sha256:e71b1bf4281f25533cf15e6e5f9be4dac74d2328152edf7ecde23abc54e16c1c
    - image: index.docker.io/library/haproxy@sha256:6dae9c8674e2e5f418c3dd040041a05f6b490597315139c0bcacadf65a46cfd5
    ```

1. Feed `/tmp/resolved-manifest` to `kbld pkg` command to download images and pack them into a single tarball `/tmp/packaged-images.tar`:

    ```bash
    $ kbld pkg -f /tmp/resolved-manifest --output /tmp/packaged-images.tar
    package | exporting 2 images...
    package | will export index.docker.io/library/nginx@sha256:e71b1bf4281f25533cf15e6e5f9be4dac74d2328152edf7ecde23abc54e16c1c
    package | will export index.docker.io/library/haproxy@sha256:6dae9c8674e2e5f418c3dd040041a05f6b490597315139c0bcacadf65a46cfd5
    package | exported 2 images

    $ ls -lah /tmp/packaged-images.tar
    -rw-r--r-- 1 root root 314M May  3 18:59 /tmp/packaged-images.tar
    ```

    Note: Depending on your internet connection this may be slow.

To import packaged images from a tarball:

1. Specify new repository location `docker.io/dkalinin/app1` and provide tarball:

    ```bash
    $ kbld unpkg -f /tmp/resolved-manifest --input /tmp/packaged-images.tar --repository docker.io/dkalinin/app1
    unpackage | importing 2 images...
    unpackage | importing index.docker.io/library/nginx@sha256:e71b1bf4281f25533cf15e6e5f9be4dac74d2328152edf7ecde23abc54e16c1c -> docker.io/dkalinin/app1@sha256:e71b1bf4281f25533cf15e6e5f9be4dac74d2328152edf7ecde23abc54e16c1c...
    unpackage | importing index.docker.io/library/haproxy@sha256:6dae9c8674e2e5f418c3dd040041a05f6b490597315139c0bcacadf65a46cfd5 -> docker.io/dkalinin/app1@sha256:6dae9c8674e2e5f418c3dd040041a05f6b490597315139c0bcacadf65a46cfd5...
    unpackage | imported 2 images
    images:
    - image: docker.io/dkalinin/app1@sha256:e71b1bf4281f25533cf15e6e5f9be4dac74d2328152edf7ecde23abc54e16c1c
    - image: docker.io/dkalinin/app1@sha256:6dae9c8674e2e5f418c3dd040041a05f6b490597315139c0bcacadf65a46cfd5
    ```

    Images will be imported under a single new repository `docker.io/dkalinin/app1`. **You are guaranteed that images are exactly same as they are referenced by the same digests in produced YAML configuration (though under a different repository name)**.

1. **Alternatively**, using `relocate` command:

    ```bash
    $ kbld relocate -f /tmp/resolved-manifest --repository docker.io/dkalinin/app1
    relocate | ...
    images:
    - image: docker.io/dkalinin/app1@sha256:e71b1bf4281f25533cf15e6e5f9be4dac74d2328152edf7ecde23abc54e16c1c
    - image: docker.io/dkalinin/app1@sha256:6dae9c8674e2e5f418c3dd040041a05f6b490597315139c0bcacadf65a46cfd5
    ```

---
### Authentication

See general authentication steps in [Authentication doc](auth.md).

### Using with gcr.io

- Run `kbld unpkg -f /tmp/resolved-manifest --input /tmp/packaged-images.tar --repository gcr.io/{project-id}/app1` to import images (e.g. project id is `dkalinin`)

### Using with AWS ECR

**Note**: AWS ECR does not support manifest list media types from Docker Registry v2 API. Manifest lists are used for images that are built against multiple architectures and platforms and are referenced through a single digest or tag. Most user-built images do not use manifest lists (as it's a single image); however, common Docker Hub library images are represented by manifest lists and will fail upon import into AWS ECR. You will see following error: `Writing image index: Retried 5 times: uploading manifest2: UNSUPPORTED: Invalid parameter at 'imageTag' failed to satisfy constraint: 'must satisfy regular expression '[a-zA-Z0-9-_.]+'`. Related [AWS feature request](https://forums.aws.amazon.com/thread.jspa?threadID=292294)).

- Run `kbld unpkg -f /tmp/resolved-manifest --input /tmp/packaged-images.tar --repository {uri}` to import images (e.g. uri is `823869848626.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/k14s/kbld-test`)

### Using with Harbor

You may have to provide `--registry-ca-cert-path` flag with a path to a CA certificate file for Harbor Registry API.

### Notes

- Produced tarball does not have duplicate image layers, as they are named by their digest (see `tar tvf /tmp/packaged-images.tar`).
- If digest reference points to an image index, all children (images and other image indexes) will be included in the export. Saving only a portion of contents would of course change the digest.
- Only Docker v2 and OCI images and indexes are supported. Docker v1 format is not supported, hence, not all images out there could be exported and only registries supporting v2 format can be used for imports.
- Images that once were in different repositories are imported into the same repository to make it easier to manage them in bulk.
